A player logs onto a survival server
full of ambition, ready to start
grinding for a new mega project. But as
they enter their first N city ship,
their heart sinks. The elytra has
already been looted. No big deal. The
search continues until they check
another and another. Another another.
Some evil nerd has already stolen every
single elytra on the server and is now
selling them for 10 Netherite blocks
each in a creepy van at spawn. Sound
familiar? The thing is, Moang already
fixed this issue in 1.21. Kind of. When
trial chambers were added to the game,
they added vaults which can be opened
using a trial key. Each vault can be
looted once per player, and the keys can
be farmed using the trial spawner. It's
a great system to allow everyone a
chance to loot a structure, except that
they weren't added to any of the game's
old structures. If bench ships had a few
vaults with a chance to get elytra,
people wouldn't have to explore
thousands of blocks for key progression
items. But 1. Not 21 also added the
ominous potion, which activates pillager
raids and corresponds to a special
ominous vault in the trial chamber. It's
such a good opportunity to take old
structures and add brand new challenges
and rewards to them. Like, what if the
ominous effect at a bastion activates
some sort of piglin seed? or a chicken
jockey fight at the woodland mansion.